Seok-woo, a divorced fund manager, is a workaholic and absentee father to his 
young daughter, Su-an. For her birthday the next day, she wishes for her father
to take her to Busan to see her mother. They board the KTX at Seoul Station. 
Others on the same train are tough working-class husband Sang-hwa and his 
pregnant wife Seong-kyeong, a high school baseball team, rich-yet-egotistical 
COO Yon-suk, elderly sisters In-gil and Jon-gil, and a homeless man who is 
experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder.  As the train departs, a convulsing
young woman boards the train with a bite wound on her leg. The woman soon becomes
a zombie and attacks a train attendant, who then also turns into a zombie. The 
infection quickly spreads throughout the train. Baseball player Yong-guk, a girl
named Jin-hee who has a crush on him, and several passengers manage to escape to 
another car. News broadcasts report zombie outbreaks throughout the country. The 
train stops at Daejeon, but the surviving passengers find that the city has also 
been overrun, and they hastily retreat back to the train, splitting up into 
different train cars in the chaos. The conductor restarts the train to head to 
Busan, where a successful quarantine zone has reportedly been established.
Seok-woo, Sang-hwa, and Yong-guk fight their way to where Su-an, In-gil, and 
Seong-kyeong are hiding, and together they struggle through the zombie horde to 
the front train car, where the other passengers are sheltered. However, at the 
instigation of Yon-suk, the passengers block the survivors from entering, fearing 
that they are infected. Sang-hwa and In-gil sacrifice themselves to give the 
others time to force open the door and enter the car. Yon-suk demands that the 
newcomers isolate themselves in the vestibule, and the others follow his lead. 
When Jong-gil deliberately opens the door to the zombies to be with her zombified 
sister In-gil, the zombies kill the rest of the passengers, leaving Seok-woo, 
Su-an and Seong-kyeong safe, as they are in the vestibule. Yon-suk and the train 
attendant escape the onslaught by hiding in the bathroom.
A blocked track at East Daegu train station forces the survivors to stop and 
search for another train. In the process, Seok-woo, Seong-kyeong, Su-an, and 
the homeless man are separated from Yong-guk and Jin-hee. Yon-suk escapes after 
pushing the train attendant to be killed by the zombies, then does the same with 
Jin-hee. Heartbroken, Yong-guk stays with Jin-hee and is soon bitten by her. 
The train conductor starts a locomotive on another track but is also killed by 
zombies while trying to save Yon-suk. The homeless man sacrifices himself to 
let Su-an and Seong-kyeong escape with Seok-woo into the train the conductor had 
activated. They encounter Yon-suk in the engine room, on the verge of turning 
into a zombie, having been bitten when the train conductor saved him. Seok-woo 
fights him off, but is himself bitten. He puts Su-an and Seong-kyeong inside 
the engine room and shares his last words with his daughter before moving outside. 
As he zombifies, he thinks of the first time he held his daughter in his arms 
and throws himself off the locomotive with a smile.
Su-an and Seong-kyeong get off at Busan and begin walking through a train tunnel. 
On the other side of the tunnel are soldiers stationed to defend the perimeter 
against zombies. Unable to see the new arrivals clearly, the soldiers at the 
checkpoint are instructed to shoot them. However, the soldiers then hear singing, 
which makes them realize the newcomers are human: it is Su-an, tearfully singing 
the song that she had wanted to perform for her father at the beginning of the 
film, now singing it to honor his sacrifice.
